Psalm 82 the chief musician a psalm of
David the servant of the Lord who spoke
to the Lord the words of this song on
the day that the Lord delivered him from
the hand of all his enemies and from the
hand of Saul and he said
I will love you O Lord my strength the
Lord is my rock and my fortress and my
deliverer my God my strength in whom I
will trust my shield and the Horn of my
salvation my strong hope I will call
upon the Lord who is worthy to be
praised so shall I be saved from my
enemies the pangs of death surrounded me
and the floods of ungodliness made me
afraid The Sorrows of Sheol surrounded
me the snares of death confronted me in
my distress I called upon the Lord and
cried out to my god he heard my voice
from his temple and my cry came before
him even to his ears then the earth
shook and trembled the foundations of
the hills also quaked and were shaken
because he was angry smoke went up from
his nostrils and devouring fire from his
mouth coals were kindled by it he bowed
the heavens also and came down with
darkness under his feet and he rode upon
a cherub and flew
he flew upon the wings of the wind he
made darkness his secret place his
canopy around him was dark waters and
thick clouds of the skies from the
brightness before him his thick clouds
passed with hail stones and coals of
fire the Lord thundered from heaven and
the most high uttered his voice hail
stones and coals of fire he sent out his
arrows and scattered the foe lightnings
in abundance and he vanquished them then
the chalice of a sea were seen the
foundations of the world were uncovered
at your rebuke or Lord at the blast of
the breath of your nostrils he sent from
above he took me he drew me out of many
waters he delivered me from my strong
enemy from those who hated me for they
were too strong for me they confronted
me in the day of my calamity but the
Lord was my support he also brought me
out into a broad place he delivered me
because he delighted in me the Lord
rewarded me according to my
righteousness according to the cleanness
of my hands he has recompense me for I
have kept the ways of the Lord and have
not wickedly departed from my god for
all his judgments were before me and I
did not put away his statutes from me
I was also blameless before him and I
kept myself from my iniquity therefore
the Lord is recompense me according to
my righteousness according to the
cleanness of my hands in his sight with
the merciful you will show yourself
merciful with a blameless man you will
show yourself blameless with the pure
you will show yourself pure and with the
devious you will show yourself
shrewd for you will save the humble
people but will bring down haughty looks
for you will light my lamp the Lord my
God will enlighten my darkness for by
you
I can run against a troop by my god I
can leap over a wall as for God his way
is perfect
the word of the Lord is proven he is a
shield to all who trust in him for who
is God except the Lord and who is a rock
except our God it is God who arms me
with strength and makes my way perfect
he makes my feet like the feet of deer
and sets me on my high places
he teaches my hands to make war so that
my arms can bend a bow of bronze you
have also given me the shield of your
salvation your right hand has held me up
your gentleness has made me great you
enlarged my path under me so my feet did
not slip I have pursued my enemies and
overtaken them
neither did I turn back again till they
were destroyed
I have wounded them so that they could
not rise they have fallen under my feet
for you have armed me with strength for
the battle you have subdued under me
those who rose up against me you have
also given me the necks of my enemies so
that I destroyed those who hated me
they cried out but there was none to
save even to the Lord but he did not
answer them then I beat them as fine as
the dust before the wind I cast them out
like dirt in the streets you have
delivered me from the strivings of the
people you have made me the head of the
nations of people I have not known shall
serve me as soon as they hear of me they
obey me the foreigners submit to me
the foreigners fade away and come
frightened from their hideouts the Lord
lives blessed be my rock
let the God of my salvation be exalted
it is God who avenges me and subdues the
peoples under me he delivers me from my
enemies you also lift me up above those
who rise against me you have delivered
me from the violent man therefore I will
give thanks to you O Lord among the
Gentiles and sing praises to your name
great deliverance he gives to his King
and shows mercy to his anointed to David
and his descendants forever more
[Music]